Me: What is the skillset required in street jobs like yours - selling books at streets, cooking momos?
Auto-driver: It's almost nothing; these days anyone can learn these street jobs in a few days.
Me: Then why do physically able people do begging, if they can take up these unskilled jobs?
Auto-driver: Well, the simple reason is that people earn more money by begging than by doing work like mine.

I froze.
His last sentence had me shell-shocked!

So, How Much do Beggars Really Earn?
Informal sources like this suggest an average of Rs. 1000 per day.
Math time!
That’s 1000 * 30 = Rs. 30,000 per month
That’s 30,000 * 12 = Rs. 3,60,000 per year or Rs. 3.6 lakhs per year

And you thought going to college was the path to earning a lot of money. In your face, engineering!

Rs. 3.6 lakhs per annum is just an average number! Some, who are really ‘skilled’ in this field earn much more! Check this article out!

Oh, and another thing, they don't pay tax


Source: Fotolia
Begging is Truly an 'Art'
A newbie beggar probably doesn't get a tenth of attention a seasoned beggar does.

Here’s how to become a successful beggar

wear bad clothes, even if you have money
Take drugged, sleeping children along with you to get people emotional and think you have a family to fend for
Physically harm your body so that people will get emotional. More disabilities, more money
Choose a begging spot outside temples, religious places, job interviews, etc.
Do a service like cleaning a car & then asking for money
Approach family, couple, etc. so that people end up giving money to look good
Bless the person
What do Beggars do of this money?
We need to understand that beggars are brought up in areas of the city like slums which have a bad influence and due to these influences, they pick up on bad habits like

Drugs & alcohol. Many beggars have alcohol and drug problems.
Gambling
Begging is a multi - tiered business. Beggars are organized in a hierachial manner, with gang leaders at the top of the pyramid. A lot of money 'earned' by these beggars goes to their gang leader(s)
Source: Reuters
How can you help?
Donot give money to any beggar
Encourage your friends & family to do the same
Discourage beggars from begging
Instead, consider giving to organised charities and NGOs who are trustable and likely make good use of it


Source: CARE India NGO
Bottomline
If a person goes without work, then he should go without food.

Obvious exceptions are - people who aren't able to work due to being physically handicapped or clinically depressed persons. These people should be supported by the government.

Humans always tend to take the path of least resistance. If we stop giving money to beggars, they can no longer take begging, which is the path of least resistance for them. They will be forced to take up work that contributed to the economy of the country.
